ISHTEHAR HUSSAIN
647-456-1083 ● ishteharhussain@gmail.com
github.com/XEQTIONR ● linkedin.com/in/ishteharhussain

EXPERIENCE

Languages

Proficient in
● Php (Laravel, Wordpress) ● Sql (MySQL, MariaDB) ● JavaScript (Jquery, Vue, Angular, React) ● Objective C ● Bash ● HTML ● CSS

Familiar with
● C/C++ ● Java ● Python (Django)


Contract - Full Stack Developer
July 2019 – Jan 2020

Revival Point LLC, New York NY

● Performed a complete DevOps rehaul of company resources which included migrating to AWS, setting up automatic periodical database backups, setup error logging and notifications, set up additional dev and staging environments, DNS management etc.
● Analyzed existing codebase and refactored bugs that improved accuracy of sales reports by 10%.
● Onboarded small team of contract developers to introduce them to existing codebase. Conducted code reviews during each release cycle instituting changes (if necessary) to ensure the quality of each release.
Senior Software Developer May 2018 – April 2019
Leverage IT, Toronto ON
● Developed back-end RESTful APIs for complex commercial apps for clients using PHP and Laravel.
● Designed database schemas (MySQL) and wrote migrations required to implement new features for said apps.
● Developed various parts of the front end of said applications using AngularJS and/or VueJS.
● Implemented various 3rd party APIs such as payment processing (Stripe), geo-location (Google Maps) etc.
● Leveraged AWS Cloud computing resources (EC2, S3, Lambda, CloudFront) to develop custom solutions.
● Pushed the team to adopt Gitflow which reduced merged conflicts by 50% and sped up release cycles.

Full Stack Developer
Aug 2017 – April 2018

Ariad Communications, Toronto ON

● Worked with the creative team to turn designs into full functional WordPress builds.
● Designed and implemented various microsites for clients in Lumen micro-framework complete with unit-tests.
● Performed various DevOps tasks such as setting up servers, backing up databases, writing CI pipelines, setting up Docker containers, etc.
● Worked in an environment where the expectation was to always innovate and improve current technologies and work practices. This involved activities such as code-reviews, pair-programming, and weekly development meetings.
Contract - Full Stack Developer Nov 2016 – Apr 2017
Intertrac Nano, Dhaka Bangladesh
● Worked with client to gather project requirements and build prototype for approval
● Designed database schema, built and deployed Laravel application (LAMP stack) in iterations based on customer feedback.
● Built front-end in Vue JS

Full Stack Web Developer Jan 2014 – Nov 2016
York University, Toronto ON

● Maintained various websites written in PHP being populated by a MySQL Database.
● Built and deployed custom Wordpress solutions as indicated by project outlines.
● Wrote BASH scripts to perform various tasks such as periodic data backups, data sanitization of input files, etc.


EDUCATION

Bachelor of Science, Computer Science Major Feb 2018
York University Toronto, ON

PROJECTS


Stripekart 2019

Stripekart was start-up idea that I was working on. The goal was to provide fulfillment services to remote areas where popular online marketplaces such as Amazon or Ebay do not deliver. I was in the process of developing prototypes for the iOS and Andriod apps using the NativeScript framework. The venture was eventually scrapped after the inability to find feasible solutions to problems such as being able to work with local payment providers, unavailability of the types of goods in demand, market saturation etc.

DaGameLeague 2018

This is an organization that I co-founded in 2005. DaGameLeague (DGL) is the first online gaming community in Bangladesh. This is a non-profit organization that has existed in various forms since its inception. In its early days it was a forum to promote e-sports discussions and tournaments. In the following years we organized various e-sports LAN tournaments and sponsored e-sports teams for national and international tournaments. In 2018 we abandoned LAN tournaments in favor of online tournaments organized through our website DGLcore.com which I designed and built.

Cloudshapes 2015

A social networking platform for iOS that I was working on as a personal project while I was a university student. This served me as an introduction to mobile development and was helpful to me in exploring various APIs available to iOS developers. Codebase is available on my GitHub.
